Launch file migration guide (#302)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Launch-files-migration-guide.rst

> Migrating ROS 1 launchfiles

Reviewer: "Migrating ROS 1 launch files _to ROS 2_"
Possibly add to the title for better description (it's obvious to someone already on the ROS2 docs site that we're talking about ROS 2, but it might benefit searches from external search engines)
I think launch files is two words? I can't find anywhere in existing docs where it's combined

===========================

Background
----------

A description of the ROS 2 launch system and its Python API can be found in `this tutorial<Launch-system>`.

> In this tutorial, will be described how to write XML launch files, which allow an easy migration from ROS 1.

Reviewer: There's variation among the existing tutorials, but I think only the first sentence here constitutes a "background". The second sentence is more of a summary/overview. I would rearrange (and rewrite for wordiness) like this (following the table of contents):

"
This tutorial describes how to write XML launch files for an easy migration from ROS 1.

Background
----------

A description of the ROS 2 launch system and its Python API can be found in `this tutorial<Launch-system>`.
"

Migrating tags from ROS1 to ROS2
--------------------------------

launch
^^^^^^

This tag serves the same purpose as its `ROS 1 counterpart <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/launch>`__.
It works as the root element of any ROS 2 launch XML file.

> The deprecated attribute isn't available.

Reviewer: You already have the same information for just about every tag, it's just organized differently for each. I strongly suggest writing each tag description in a uniform, structured way. One possible way of organizing could be:

tag
^^^

- ROS 1 reference <link>
- Function
- Changes in ROS 2 (Does it exist? If it does, is it different? How?)

For example:

launch
^^^^^^

- `In ROS 1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/launch>`__
- `launch` is the root element of any ROS 2 launch XML file
- It serves the same purpose in ROS 2 as ROS 1. In ROS 2, however, the deprecated attribute isn't available.

node
^^^^

As in `ROS1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/node>`__, it allows launching a new node.
The following summarize the differences:

> * ``pkg`` attribute is now ``package``.

Author: I tried using the same names as in the constructor:
https://github.com/ros2/launch_ros/blob/68337f836b9dfbf4bed2b9c3b3ae03d21570cf13/launch_ros/launch_ros/actions/node.py#L54-L67

I actually sometimes break that rule, when it was to verbose. For example:
- `node_name`, `node_executable`, `node_namespace` are `name`, `executable` and `ns`.

I think it's fine to change `package` to `pkg` too.

> * ``type`` attribute is now ``executable``.

Author: In this case, I prefer not to change `executable`. But I don't mind if we want to change to `type`.

> * The following attributes aren't available: ``machine``, ``respawn``, ``respawn_delay``, ``clear_params``.

Author: There is not implementation of something like `machine` in `launch`.
I think `clear_params` isn't more a concept, as we don't have global parameters, right?

----

Equivalent behavior to `respawn` and `respawn_delay` could be obtained with event handlers.
I think we could do to things:
- Add event handlers to the XML format (we didn't do that in the first iteration).
- The parsing function understands `respawn` attribute and create an appropriate event handler (and not only the `Node` action).

We can also do both. The second one is easier to implement.

Author: https://github.com/ros2/launch/issues/287

param
^^^^^

In ROS 2, there's no global parameters concept.

> Application using global parameters should be refactored.

Author: I think we should create a tutorial for that (sth like, `Idioms for replacing global parameters`).

      <param name="strange_separator" value="'1'//'2'//'3'" value-sep="//"/>
   </node>

Parameter grouping
""""""""""""""""""

In ROS 2, param tags are allowed to be nested.
For example:

.. code-block:: xml

   <node package="my_package" executable="my_executable" name="my_node" ns="/an_absoulute_ns">
      <param name="group1">
         <param name="group2">
            <param name="my_param" value="1"/>
         </param>
         <param name="another_param" value="2"/>
      </param>
   </node>

That will create two parameters:
   - ``group1.group2.my_param`` of value ``1``, hosted by node ``/an_absolute_ns/my_node``.
   - ``group1.another_param`` of value ``2`` hosted by node ``/an_absolute_ns/my_node``.

rosparam
^^^^^^^^

`This tag <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/rosparam>`__ can be replaced using ``from`` attribute in ``param`` tag.
For example:

.. code-block:: xml

   <node package="my_package" executable="my_executable" name="my_node" ns="/an_absoulute_ns">
      <param from="/path/to/file"/>
   </node>

remap
^^^^^

Its usage is the same as in `ROS 1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/remap>`__.

> The only difference, is that it can only be used nested in a ``node`` tag.

Author: Opened an issue: https://github.com/ros2/launch_ros/issues/45.

machine
^^^^^^^

There's not implementation of this feature in ROS 2 at the moment.

include
^^^^^^^

There is some difference from how it worked in ROS 1:

* In ros1, includes were scoped.
  In ROS 2, they should be nested inside a ``group`` tag for this.
* ``ns`` attribute is not supported.
  See example of ``push_ros_namespace`` tag for a workaround.
* ``arg`` tags nested in ``include`` tag doesn't support conditionals (``if`` or ``unless``).
* There is not support of ``env`` child tags. ``set_env`` and ``unset_env`` can be used as a workaround.
* ``clear_params``, ``pass_all_args`` attributes aren't supported.

arg
^^^

Similar behavior to `ROS 1 tag <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/arg>`__.
There are some minor changes:

* ``value`` attribute is not allowed.
  Use ``let`` tag for this.
* ``doc`` is now ``description``.

> * When used nested in an include action, ``if`` and ``unless``  attributes aren't allowed.

Author: I changed `env` tag name to `set_env` for this reason. Maybe, we should do the same with `arg` and use two names.
I commented a possible workaround [here](https://github.com/ros2/design/pull/207#discussion_r303150260).

Passing an argument via the command line
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

See `ROS 2 launch tutorial <Launch-system>`__.

env
^^^

> This has been replaced with ``env``, ``set_env`` and ``unset_env``.

Author: See discussion [here](https://github.com/ros2/design/pull/207#discussion_r303150260).

* ``env`` can be used nested in a ``node`` or ``executable`` tag.
  It accepts the same attributes as the `ROS 1 version <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/env>`__, except ``if`` and ``unless`` condition.
* ``set_env`` can be used in the root tag ``launch``.
  It also accepts the same attributes, including conditionals.
* ``unset_env`` unsets an environment variable.
  It accepts a ``name`` attribute, and conditionals.

group
^^^^^

There is some differences with `ROS 1 tag <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/group>`__.

* There is not ``ns`` attribute.
  See the new ``push_ros_namespace`` tag as a workaround.
* ``clear_params`` attribute won't be available.
* It doesn't accept ``remap`` and ``param`` tags as children.

machine and test
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

They aren't supported at the moment.

New tags

> ^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: "New tags in ROS 2
-------------------------"
This should be at the same level as "Migrating tags from ROS 1 to ROS 2", because it's two different topics: old tags and new tags. Then every subtopic should be moved up a level

set_env and unset_env
"""""""""""""""""""""

See ``env`` tag decription.

push_ros_namespace
""""""""""""""""""

> ``include`` and ``group`` tags don't accept ``ns`` attribute.

Author: See discussion [here](https://github.com/ros2/launch_ros/pull/42#issue-299060024) (and the other links there).

This action can be used as a workaround:

.. code-block:: xml

   <!-Other tags-->
   <group>
      <push_ros_namespace namespace="my_ns"/>
      <!--Nodes here are namespaced with "my_ns".-->
      <!--If there is an include action here, its nodes will also be namespaced.-->
      <push_ros_namespace namespace="another_ns"/>
      <!--Nodes here are namespaced with "another_ns/my_ns".-->
      <push_ros_namespace namespace="/absolute_ns"/>

>       <!--Nodes here are namespaced with "/absolute_ns".-->

Author: ```xml
<push_ros_namespace namespace="/absolute_ns/$(var ros_namespace)"/>
```
The problem with that, is in the case `ros_namespace` is absolute.
`PushRosNamespace` only handles any number of trailing `/` in the namespace gracefully (by deleting them).
https://github.com/ros2/launch_ros/blob/d388bba43fd4681661ab991110e96c01d142cb91/launch_ros/launch_ros/actions/push_ros_namespace.py#L64

But it doesn't handle a double slash in the middle gracefully.

I think that an optional attribute would be good. I don't have a good name for it, it cold be `push_absolute`, `result_is_absolute`.
Or maybe, adding another action `PushAbsoluteRosNamespace`.

>       <!--Nodes here are namespaced with "/absolute_ns".-->

Reviewer 2: > But it doesn't handle a double slash in the middle gracefully.

Yeah, and I don't think we should.

I think something like this would be good:

```xml
<set_ros_namespace namespace="my_ns" />
<!-- ros namespace is "my_ns" -->
<push_ros_namespace namespace="other_ns" />
<!-- ros namespace is "other_ns/my_ns" -->
<push_ros_namespace namespace="/final_ns" />
<!-- ros namespace is "/final_ns/other_ns/my_ns" -->
<push_ros_namespace namespace="/new_abs_ns" />
<!-- ros namespace is "/new_abs_ns" -->
```

And then have something like:

```
<set_ros_namespace namespace="/final_ns/other_ns/my_ns" />
<!-- ros namespace is "/final_ns/other_ns/my_ns" -->
<push_ros_namespace namespace="$(namespace-join /new_abs_ns $(ros-namespace)) abs-ok" />
<!-- ros namespace is "/new_abs_ns/final_ns/other_ns/my_ns" -->
```

I dunno, I'm just sketching what I think would be feature complete as far as I can see.

      <!--The following node receives an absolute namespace, so it will ignore the others previously pushed.-->
      <!--The full path of the node will be /asd/my_node.-->
      <node package="my_pkg" executable="my_executable" name="my_node" ns="/asd"/>
   </group>
   <!--Nodes outside the group action won't be namespaced.-->
   <!-Other tags-->

let
"""

It replaces ``arg`` tag with value attribute.

.. code-block:: xml

   <let var="foo" value="asd"/>

executable
""""""""""

Allows running any executable.
For example:

.. code-block:: xml

>    <executable cmd="ls -las" cwd="/var/log" name="my_exec" launch-prefix="something" output="screen" shell="true">

Author: The [design document](https://github.com/ros2/design/blob/roslaunch/articles/151_roslaunch_xml.md) is missing a subsection explaining this tag.
I will add it.

      <env name="LD_LIBRARY" value="/lib/some.so"/>
   </executable>

Replacing include tag
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For having exactly the same behavior as ROS 1, they should be nested in a ``group`` tag.

.. code-block:: xml

   <group>
      <include file="another_launch_file"/>
   </group>

For replacing the ``ns`` attribute usage:

.. code-block:: xml

   <group>
      <push_ros_namespace namespace="my_ns"/>
      <include file="another_launch_file"/>
   </group>

Substitutions
-------------

Substitutions syntax haven't changed, it's still ``$(sub-name val1 val2 ...)``.
There are some changes with ROS 1:

> * There is not ``env`` alternative.

Author: This is missing in `launch`:
https://github.com/ros2/launch/blob/15af530bd2a1d207849659615fbbdbb5a4daf4a5/launch/launch/substitutions/environment_variable.py#L29-L47
I think we could do `default_value` argument of `EnvironmentVariable` action optional.
So if someones do:
```python3
EnvironmentVariable('MY_ENV_VAR', default_value=None)
```
The substitution will fail if the env var is not found.

Then, I could write two parsing methods for it (this is possible in the current implementation).
One mimicking `optenv`, and the other `env`.

Does that sound good?

Author: Adding support in https://github.com/ros2/launch/pull/288

  ``optenv`` has been renamed as ``env``.

> * ``find`` has been replaced with ``find-package``.

Author: It could be, maybe, `find-pkg`.

Author: https://github.com/ros2/launch/pull/288

* There is a new ``exec-in-package`` substitution.
  e.g.: ``$(exec-in-package <package_name> <exec_name>)``
* There is a new ``find-exec`` substitution.

> * ``anon`` hasn't an alternative at the moment.

Author: There is not implementation in `launch`.

Author: https://github.com/ros2/launch/issues/289

* ``arg`` has been replaced with ``var``.
  It looks at configurations defined with ``arg`` or ``let`` tag.

> * ``eval`` has not alternative at the moment.

Author: It will after https://github.com/ros2/launch/pull/281.

* ``dirname`` has the same behaviour as before.

Type inference rules
--------------------

> The rules that were shown in ``Type inference rules`` subsection of ``param`` tag applies to any attribute.

Author: We have some inconsistencies on how we are coercing types in different places of launch.
For example, `Node` action use yaml for converting parameter, xml launch frontend has its own rules, and other actions do other things (e.g.: 
 https://github.com/ros2/launch/blob/15af530bd2a1d207849659615fbbdbb5a4daf4a5/launch/launch/actions/timer_action.py#L69-L72, and we're actually losing precision).

One problem of this, is that setting a parameter from a substitution looks different at setting it directly (see https://github.com/ros2/launch_ros/blob/68337f836b9dfbf4bed2b9c3b3ae03d21570cf13/test_launch_ros/test/test_launch_ros/frontend/test_node_frontend.py#L29-L53).

I was thinking in adding support of typed substitutions (they aren't performed always to `str`). The benefits would be:
- Standardize code handling substitutions that are coerced to another type (bool, float, etc).
- In the cases were more than a type is possible (e.g.: parameters), if the user want to pass a parameter that is known to be an integer and the substitution is later coerced to a string, we could raise a substitution failure. Now, this is not possible. In that case, we will set a parameter of the wrong type, and the node that uses it may handle it correctly or not.

Reviewer 3: I'm not a big fan of typed substitutions either, but I do strongly believe we have to standardize type inference rules everywhere -- even during substitution.

For example:

.. code-block:: xml

   <!--Setting a string value to an attribute expecting an int will raise an error.-->

>    <tag1 int-attr="'1'"/>

Reviewer 2: I understand these examples, but I think it's confusing when first reading it. When you're using pseudo syntax, better to make it painfully obvious. Like consider using `<made_up_tag1 attr-expecting-an-int="'1'">`.

      <!--The full path of the node will be /asd/my_node.-->
      <node pkg="my_pkg" exec="my_executable" name="my_node" ns="/asd"/>
   </group>
   <!--Nodes outside the group action won't be namespaced.-->
   <!-Other tags-->

let
^^^

It's a replacement of ``arg`` tag with a value attribute.

.. code-block:: xml

   <let var="foo" value="asd"/>

executable
^^^^^^^^^^

It allows running any executable.

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: xml

   <executable cmd="ls -las" cwd="/var/log" name="my_exec" launch-prefix="something" output="screen" shell="true">
      <env name="LD_LIBRARY" value="/lib/some.so"/>
   </executable>

Replacing an include tag
------------------------

To have exactly the same behavior as in ROS 1, ``include`` tags must be nested in a ``group`` tag.

.. code-block:: xml

   <group>
      <include file="another_launch_file"/>
   </group>

To replace the ``ns`` attribute, ``push_ros_namespace`` action must be used:

.. code-block:: xml

   <group>
      <push_ros_namespace namespace="my_ns"/>
      <include file="another_launch_file"/>
   </group>

Substitutions
-------------

> Documentation about ROS 1's substitutions in `roslaunch XML wiki <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML>`__.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider 
```suggestion
Documentation about ROS 1's substitutions can be found in `roslaunch XML wiki <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML>`__.
```

> Substitutions syntax hasn't changed, it's still ``$(sub-name val1 val2 ...)``.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider 
```suggestion
Substitutions syntax hasn't changed i.e. it still follows the ``$(substitution-name arg1 arg2 ...)`` pattern.
```

> There are some changes compared to ROS 1:

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider 
```suggestion
There are, however, some changes w.r.t. ROS 1:
```

> * ``env`` and ``optenv`` have been replaced by only one tag: ``env``.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider 
```suggestion
* ``env`` and ``optenv`` tags have been replaced by the ``env`` tag.
```

> Migration of launch files from ROS 1 to ROS 2

Reviewer: _Migrating_ launch files from ROS 1 to ROS 2
(fewer words, same meaning)

=============================================

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 1
   :local:

This tutorial describes how to write XML launch files for an easy migration from ROS 1.

Background
----------

A description of the ROS 2 launch system and its Python API can be found in `Launch System tutorial <Launch-system>`.

Migrating tags from ROS1 to ROS2
--------------------------------

launch
^^^^^^

* `In ROS 1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/launch>`__
* ``launch`` is the root element of any ROS 2 launch XML file
* In ROS 2, the ``deprecated`` attribute isn't available

node
^^^^

* `In ROS1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/node>`__

> * It allows launching a new node

Reviewer: ~It~ Allows launching a new node

> * There are some differences with ROS 1:

Reviewer: ~There are some d~ Differences ~with~from ROS 1:

   * The following attributes aren't available: ``machine``, ``respawn``, ``respawn_delay``, ``clear_params``

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: xml

   <launch>
      <node pkg="demo_nodes_cpp" exec="talker"/>
      <node pkg="demo_nodes_cpp" exec="listener"/>
   </launch>

param
^^^^^

* `In ROS1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/param>`__
* Used for passing a parameter to a node

> * There's no global parameter concept in ROS 2.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno nit: for some sentences with have trailing periods, for some not. Should we standardize it? @maryaB-osr for feedback.

Author: I think that the idea is that list items shouldn't end with a period, but I'm not sure.

Reviewer: "Used for passing..." is not a complete sentence, so it shouldn't end with a period.
"There's no global..." _is_ a complete sentence, so it should end with a period. Also it has a sentence following it, so they need to be separated.
I agree it looks odd though, having both in one list. 
For now you can pick one standard, but make sure all the bullets follow the rule. So either:

- all ending with a period
- none ending with a period
- only complete sentences ending with a period (incomplete sentences are the ones starting with verbs like _used, allows_, etc.)

The first two will look the best, the last is technically grammatically correct

Author: I agree, added period in all the sentences.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the thorough explanation @maryaB-osr !

      <param name="a_string" value="'1'"/>
      <!--A integer parameter with value 1-->
      <param name="an_int" value="1"/>
      <!--A float parameter with value 1.0-->
      <param name="a_float" value="1.0"/>
      <!--A string parameter with value "asd"-->
      <param name="another_string" value="asd"/>
      <!--Another string parameter, with value "asd"-->
      <param name="string_with_same_value_as_above" value="'asd'"/>
      <!--Another string parameter, with value "'asd'"-->
      <param name="quoted_string" value="\'asd\'"/>
      <!--A list of strings, with value ["asd", "bsd", "csd"]-->
      <param name="list_of_strings" value="asd, bsd, csd" value-sep=", "/>
      <!--A list of ints, with value [1, 2, 3]-->
      <param name="list_of_ints" value="1,2,3" value-sep=","/>
      <!--Another list of strings, with value ["1", "2", "3"]-->
      <param name="another_list_of_strings" value="'1';'2';'3'" value-sep=";"/>
      <!--A list of strings using an strange separator, with value ["1", "2", "3"]-->
      <param name="strange_separator" value="'1'//'2'//'3'" value-sep="//"/>
   </node>

Parameter grouping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In ROS 2, param tags are allowed to be nested.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider: 
```suggestion
In ROS 2, `<param/>` tags are allowed to be nested.
```
instead.

Author: I prefer ` ``param`` ` than ` ``<param/>`` `, but I can change the style if you think the second option is better.

For example:

.. code-block:: xml

   <node pkg="my_package" exec="my_executable" name="my_node" ns="/an_absoulute_ns">
      <param name="group1">
         <param name="group2">
            <param name="my_param" value="1"/>
         </param>
         <param name="another_param" value="2"/>
      </param>
   </node>

That will create two parameters:

>    - ``group1.group2.my_param`` of value ``1``, hosted by node ``/an_absolute_ns/my_node``

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider 
```suggestion
   - A ``group1.group2.my_param`` of value ``1``, hosted by node ``/an_absolute_ns/my_node``
```
instead. Same below.

> That will create two parameters:

Reviewer: That will create two parameters: (new line between sentence and list)

   - ``group1.group2.my_param`` of value ``1``, hosted by node ``/an_absolute_ns/my_node``
   - ``group1.another_param`` of value ``2`` hosted by node ``/an_absolute_ns/my_node``

   - ``group1.another_param`` of value ``2`` hosted by node ``/an_absolute_ns/my_node``

> It's also possible to use the full parameter name:

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
It's also possible to use full parameter names:
```

.. code-block:: xml

   <node pkg="my_package" exec="my_executable" name="my_node" ns="/an_absoulute_ns">
      <param name="group1.group2.my_param" value="1"/>
      <param name="group1.another_param" value="2"/>
   </node>

rosparam
^^^^^^^^

* `In ROS1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/rosparam>`__
* Loads parameters from a yaml file

> * It has been replaced with ``from`` atribute of ``param`` tag

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
* It has been replaced with a ``from`` atribute in ``param`` tags.
```

> * It allowed loading parameters from a yaml file

Reviewer: ~It allowed loading~ Loads parameters from a yaml file

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: xml

   <node pkg="my_package" exec="my_executable" name="my_node" ns="/an_absoulute_ns">
      <param from="/path/to/file"/>
   </node>

remap
^^^^^

* `In ROS 1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/remap>`__

> * Used for passing remappings to a node

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
* Used to pass remapping rules to a node.
```

> * At the moment, it can only be used nested in a ``node`` tag

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
* It can only be used within ``node`` tags.
```

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: xml

   <launch>
      <node pkg="demo_nodes_cpp" exec="talker">
         <remap from="chatter" to="my_topic"/>
      </node>
      <node pkg="demo_nodes_cpp" exec="listener">
         <remap from="chatter" to="my_topic"/>
      </node>
   </launch>

include
^^^^^^^

* `In ROS 1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/include>`__
* Allows including another launch file
* Differences from ROS 1:

>    * In ROS 1, includes were scoped

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
   * In ROS 1, included content was scoped.
```

>      In ROS 2, they should be nested inside a ``group`` tag for this

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
     In ROS 2, it's not. Nest includes with ``group`` tags to scope them.
```

> * It allows including another launch file

Reviewer: ~It a~ Allows including another launch file

> * There are several differences with ROS 1:

Reviewer: ~There are several d~ Differences ~with~from ROS 1:

   * ``ns`` attribute is not supported
     See example of ``push_ros_namespace`` tag for a workaround
   * ``arg`` tags nested in an ``include`` tag don't support conditionals (``if`` or ``unless``)
   * There is no support of nested ``env`` tags
     ``set_env`` and ``unset_env`` can be used as a workaround

>    * ``clear_params``, ``pass_all_args`` attributes aren't supported

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
   * Both ``clear_params``, ``pass_all_args`` attributes aren't supported
```

>    * There is not support of nested ``env`` tags

Reviewer: There is ~not~no support of nested ``env`` tags

Examples
~~~~~~~~

See `Replacing an include tag`_.

arg
^^^

* `In ROS 1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/arg>`__

> * ``arg`` is used for declaring a launch argument, or for passing an argument

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider 
```suggestion
* ``arg`` is used for declaring a launch argument, or to pass an argument
```

>   when using ``include`` tag

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
  when using ``include`` tags.
```

* Differences from ROS 1:
   * ``value`` attribute is not allowed
     Use ``let`` tag for this
   * ``doc`` is now ``description``

>    * When used nested in an ``include`` tag, ``if`` and ``unless``  attributes aren't allowed

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider:

```suggestion
   * When nested within an ``include`` tag, ``if`` and ``unless``  attributes aren't allowed
```

> * There are some differences with ROS 1:

Reviewer: ~There are some d~ Differences ~with~from ROS 1:

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: xml

   <launch>
      <arg name="topic_name" default="chatter"/>
      <node pkg="demo_nodes_cpp" exec="talker">
         <remap from="chatter" to="$(var topic_name)"/>
      </node>
      <node pkg="demo_nodes_cpp" exec="listener">
         <remap from="chatter" to="$(var topic_name)"/>
      </node>
   </launch>

Passing an argument via the command line
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

See `ROS 2 launch tutorial <Launch-system>`__.

env
^^^

* `In ROS 1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/env>`__
* Sets an environment variable
* It has been replaced with ``env``, ``set_env`` and ``unset_env``:
   * ``env`` can only be used nested in a ``node`` or ``executable`` tag.

>      Conditionals aren't supported.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno what is a conditional in this context?

>    * ``set_env`` can be used in the root tag ``launch`` or in ``group``.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
   * ``set_env`` can be nested within ``launch`` or ``group`` tags.
```

> * It allows setting an environment variable.

Reviewer: ~It allows setting~ Sets an environment variable

>      It accepts the same attributes than ``env``, and also conditionals.

Reviewer: It accepts the same attributes ~than~as ``env``...

   * ``unset_env`` unsets an environment variable.
     It accepts a ``name`` attribute and conditionals.

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: xml

   <launch>
      <set_env name="MY_ENV_VAR" value="MY_VALUE" if="CONDITION_A"/>
      <set_env name="ANOTHER_ENV_VAR" value="ANOTHER_VALUE" unless="CONDITION_B"/>
      <set_env name="SOME_ENV_VAR" value="SOME_VALUE"/>
      <node pkg="MY_PACKAGE" exec="MY_EXECUTABLE" name="MY_NODE">
         <env name="NODE_ENV_VAR" value="SOME_VALUE"/>
      </node>
      <unset_env name="MY_ENV_VAR" if="CONDITION_A"/>
      <node pkg="ANOTHER_PACKAGE" exec="ANOTHER_EXECUTABLE" name="ANOTHER_NODE"/>
      <unset_env name="ANOTHER_ENV_VAR" unless="CONDITION_B"/>
      <unset_env name="SOME_ENV_VAR"/>
   </launch>

group
^^^^^

* `In ROS 1 <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/group>`__
* Allows limiting the scope of launch configurations.

>   Usually used together with ``let``, ``include`` or ``push_ros_namespace`` tags.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider 
```suggestion
  Usually used together with ``let``, ``include`` and ``push_ros_namespace`` tags.
```

> * It allows limiting the scope of launch configurations.

Reviewer: ~It a~ Allows limiting the scope of launch configurations

* Differences from ROS 1:
   * There is no ``ns`` attribute.
     See the new ``push_ros_namespace`` tag as a workaround.
   * ``clear_params`` attribute isn't available.

>    * It doesn't accept ``remap`` and ``param`` tags as children.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
   * It doesn't accept ``remap`` nor ``param`` tags as children.
```

> * Differences with ROS 1:

Reviewer: Differences ~with~from ROS 1:

Example
~~~~~~~

> ``launch-prefix`` configuration is used by all the ``executable`` and ``node`` tags.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno I'd say that the configuration is used by the launch actions represented by those tags.

This example will use ``time`` as a prefix, if ``use_time_prefix_in_talker`` argument is ``1``, only for the talker.

.. code-block:: xml

   <launch>
      <arg name="use_time_prefix_in_talker" default="0"/>
      <group>
         <let name="launch-prefix" value="time" if="$(var use_time_prefix_in_talker)"/>
         <node pkg="demo_nodes_cpp" exec="talker"/>
      </group>
      <node pkg="demo_nodes_cpp" exec="listener"/>
   </launch>

machine and test
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

They aren't supported at the moment.

New tags in ROS 2
-----------------

set_env and unset_env
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See `env`_ tag decription.

push_ros_namespace
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> ``include`` and ``group`` tags don't accept ``ns`` attribute.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno consider
```suggestion
``include`` and ``group`` tags don't accept an ``ns`` attribute.
```

This action can be used as a workaround:

.. code-block:: xml

   <!-Other tags-->
   <group>
      <push_ros_namespace namespace="my_ns"/>
      <!--Nodes here are namespaced with "my_ns".-->
      <!--If there is an include action here, its nodes will also be namespaced.-->
      <push_ros_namespace namespace="another_ns"/>
      <!--Nodes here are namespaced with "another_ns/my_ns".-->
      <push_ros_namespace namespace="/absolute_ns"/>
      <!--Nodes here are namespaced with "/absolute_ns".-->
      <!--The following node receives an absolute namespace, so it will ignore the others previously pushed.-->
      <!--The full path of the node will be /asd/my_node.-->
      <node pkg="my_pkg" exec="my_executable" name="my_node" ns="/asd"/>
   </group>
   <!--Nodes outside the group action won't be namespaced.-->
   <!-Other tags-->

let
^^^

> It's a replacement of ``arg`` tag with a value attribute.

Reviewer 3: @ivanpauno is it just that?

Author: Yes, I think it's exactly the same.

Author: From http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/arg.

```
<arg name="foo" value="bar" />

Declares foo with constant value. The value for foo cannot be overridden. This usage enables internal parameterization of a launch file without exposing that parameterization at higher levels.
```

The other two cases:
```
<arg name="foo" />
<arg name="foo" default="1" />
```
look exactly the same in ROS 1 and ROS 2.

.. code-block:: xml

   <let var="foo" value="asd"/>

executable
^^^^^^^^^^

It allows running any executable.

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: xml

   <executable cmd="ls -las" cwd="/var/log" name="my_exec" launch-prefix="something" output="screen" shell="true">
      <env name="LD_LIBRARY" value="/lib/some.so"/>
   </executable>

Replacing an include tag
------------------------

> To have exactly the same behavior as in ROS 1, they must be nested in a ``group`` tag.

Reviewer: To have exactly the same behavior as in ROS 1, ~they~ ``include`` tags must be nested in a ``group`` tag.

.. code-block:: xml

   <group>
      <include file="another_launch_file"/>
   </group>

To replace the ``ns`` attribute, ``push_ros_namespace`` action must be used:

.. code-block:: xml

   <group>
      <push_ros_namespace namespace="my_ns"/>
      <include file="another_launch_file"/>
   </group>

Substitutions
-------------

Documentation about ROS 1's substitutions in `roslaunch XML wiki <http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML>`__.

> Substitutions syntax haven't changed, it's still ``$(sub-name val1 val2 ...)``.

Reviewer: Substitutions syntax ~haven't~hasn't changed
